
#### If users want to entirely reproduce the figures in APEC paper (https://www.biorxiv.org/content/10.1101/646331v4), please create a new python 3.6.8 environment in anaconda/miniconda, and install APEC in the environment. APEC will install specific versions of the following packages:

    numpy==1.16.2
    scipy==1.0.0
    pandas==0.24.2
    matplotlib==3.0.3
    seaborn==0.9.0
    numba==0.43.1
    networkx==2.2
    python-louvain==0.11
    scikit-learn==0.20.0
    MulticoreTsne==0.1
    umap-learn==0.3.8
    rpy2==2.8.5

After downloading project01.tar.gz, project02.tar.gz, and project03.tar.gz, please use following commands to unzip them:

    tar -zvxf project01.tar.gz
    tar -zvxf project02.tar.gz
    tar -zvxf project03.tar.gz

## (1) project01

Project01 contains single cell samples from hematopoietic stem cell differentiation project (including HSC, MPP, CMP, GMP, MEP, LMPP, CLP, pDC, and UNK cells), from "Buenrostro, J.D. et al. Integrated Single-Cell Analysis Maps the Continuous Regulatory Landscape of Human Hematopoietic Differentiation. Cell 173, 1535-1548 e1516 (2018)". Users can run **script_for_project01.py** to obtain Fig. 1b, 1d, 3c, and 3d of the APEC paper, as follows:

    python script_for_project01.py -p $project01 -r $reference

where $project01 is the **project01** folder, and $reference is the **reference** folder. The clustering step will cost ~10 minutes, and the entire script will cost ~70 minutes. The output figures will be placed in $project01/figure/ folder, including:

output figure|figure index in APEC paper
-|-
TSNE_by_APEC_with_notes_label.pdf|Fig. 1b
motif_XXX_on_tsne_by_APEC.pdf|Fig. 1d
pseudotime_trajectory_with_notes_label.pdf|Fig. 3c
motif_XXX_on_trajectory_by_APEC.pdf|Fig. 3d

**NOTE**: Monocle is very sensitive to the input matrix. For example, when we use different versions of scipy (such as 1.0.0 and 1.2.1), the PCA matrices generated by sklearn will be slightly different (difference < 1.0e-7), and even this small difference will produce completely different shapes of trajectories by monocle. Different versions of many other related libraries/packages in python and R environment will also result in different shapes of trajectories.


## (2) project02

Project02 contains single cell samples from the forebrain of adult mice, from "Preissl, S. et al. Single-nucleus analysis of accessible chromatin in developing mouse forebrain reveals cell-type-specific transcriptional regulation. Nat Neurosci 21, 432-439 (2018)". Users can run **script_for_project02.py** to obtain Fig. 2a, 2b, and 2e of the APEC paper, as follows:

    python script_for_project02.py -p $project02 -r $reference

where $project02 is the **project02** folder, and $reference is the **reference** folder. The clustering step will cost ~90 minutes, and the entire script will cost ~2 hours. The output figures will be placed in $project02/figure/ folder, including:

output figure|figure index in APEC paper
-|-
TSNE_by_APEC_with_cluster_label.pdf|Fig. 2a
cell_cell_correlation_by_APEC_with_cluster_label.png|Fig. 2b
motif_XXX_on_tsne_by_APEC.pdf|Fig. 2e

In addition, if users want to re-plot Fig. 2c, 2d, 2f, and 2g of the APEC paper, they can run **script_python_for_Figure_2c_2d.py** and **script_python_for_Figure_2f_2g.py** **after** the running of "script_for_project02.py", as follows:

    python script_python_for_Figure_2c_2d.py -p $project02
    python script_python_for_Figure_2f_2g.py -p $project02

The output figures will be placed in the same folder as the two scripts, including:

output figure|figure index in APEC paper
-|-
cluster_vs_gene.png|Fig. 2c
cluster_pearson_corr.png|Fig. 2d
clusters_vs_Excl_types.png|Fig. 2f
clusters_vs_Int_types.png|Fig. 2g


## (3) project03

Project03 contains single cell samples of the leukemic stem and blast cells of two different patients (SU070 and SU353), from "Schep, A.N., Wu, B., Buenrostro, J.D. & Greenleaf, W.J. chromVAR: inferring transcription-factor-associated accessibility from single-cell epigenomic data. Nat Methods 14, 975-978 (2017)". Users can run **script_for_project03.py** to obtain Supplementary Fig. 2b of the APEC paper, as follows:

    python script_for_project03.py -p $project03

where $project03 is the **project03** folder. The entire script will cost ~5 minutes. The output figure will be placed in $project03/figure/ folder, which is:

output figure|figure index in APEC paper
-|-
TSNE_by_APEC_with_notes_label.pdf|Supplementary Fig. 2b
